Write up Content section (#37)
directus/docs: content/3.content/7.translations.md

## Use a Translation String

<!-- <video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
<source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/translation-strings/translation-strings-20220616A/assign-and-remove-translation-string-20220616A.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video> -->

Throughout the settings module, you will notice certain input fields have a :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} icon on them, meaning you have the option assign a translation string.

To assign a translation string, navigate to the input that you'd like to add a translation string to. There are two ways to assign a translation string:

- Click :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} and a dropdown menu with all translation strings will appear.
- Type `$t:translation-string-key` and hit enter.

Choose a translation string key as desired.

::callout{type="info" title="Switching Language"}

There are two ways to change the app language. First, administrators can set the project's
[default language](/configuration/translations). Second, users can choose their own personal

> language preference.

Reviewer: Remove first and second. Conciseness is key.

::

::callout{type="info" title="Adding New Translation Strings"}

You can also click ":icon{name="material-symbols:add-circle-rounded"} New Translation String" in the :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} dropdown menu to create a new translation string on the fly.

> ::

Reviewer: Somewhere in this doc also talk about app translations via Crowdin and that this is different from CONTENT translations (briefly mentioned in the relationships page in data modeling.) If you need help on framing it, look at the first couple of eps of Academy.

Author: @phazonoverload Should I include a full walkthrough on contributing to CrowdIn?

I didn't find a mention of CrowdIn in the relationships page.

Reviewer: No the relationships page is about content translations. But that's obviously important in a content section. 

Maybe something like: 

> Many parts of the Data Studio are already translated into x many languages via community contribution on Crowdin. 
>
> ## Translation Strings
>
> ## Content Translations

---

> description: Translation Strings enable you to translate things like dropdown options, placeholder text, field notes, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Both content and the data studio can be translated into multiple languages. 
```

To assign a translation string, navigate to the input that you'd like to add a translation string to. There are two ways to assign a translation string:

- Click :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} and a dropdown menu with all translation strings will appear.
- Type `$t:translation-string-key` and hit enter.

Choose a translation string key as desired.

::callout{type="info" title="Switching Language"}

There are two ways to change the app language. Administrators can set the project's
[default language](/configuration/translations), while users can choose their own personal
language preference.

::

::callout{type="info" title="Adding New Translation Strings"}

You can also click ":icon{name="material-symbols:add-circle-rounded"} New Translation String" in the :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} dropdown menu to create a new translation string on the fly.

::

## Content Translations

<!-- TODO: Image -->

With Directus, you can localize your content into several languages using a [translations field](/data-modeling/relationships) on a given collection.

> Once this field is added to a collection, a few new collections will be created. One being a pre-populated `languages` collection, as well as an invisible `<colletion-name>_translations`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this field is added to a collection, a few new collections will be created. One being a pre-populated `languages` collection, as well as a hidden `<colletion-name>_translations` collection.
```
